Yeah, it's pretty simple with Vercel and
apps like Railway to get things deployed.
It mostly works the same.
So, yeah.
So, the only other thing I want to talk
about before we end it is just like some
of the things to do next to get ready for
production.
So if you've done the intro to next JSP2,
I mentioned in their study up more on
server components client
components data fetching for
this course I'm going to recommend
more production ready things.
So if you go to the beta docs so
betadoc.nextjs.org.
The things you really wanna look into
are gonna be like re-validating data.
This is probably one of
the biggest features in the app,
but it's actually very complicated
to under, I mean, it's just caching,
caching is one of
the hardest things to do.
So it's always gonna be complicated and
you can almost never get it right, but
it does change behavior of your
application significantly.
So read up on that and
obviously caching itself.
So how segment level caching works
versus per request caching and
I talked a little bit about those,
but I didn't use those terms.
I talked about pages being cached and
API calls being cached,
that's the different segment
based caching these pages.
Everything that a page needs
being cached per that segment,
versus something being
cached inside of fetch.
Those are two different types of caches
that can be revalidated differently
How to preload data.
So using this pattern where
you export a preload function,
Next.js doesn't care about this,
it doesn't pick it up.
But inside of a page you can bring in
that preload function, preload the data,
get your stuff, if it's not there, render
some stuff so it can get pretty crazy.
This is very advanced, so
you can read up on that.
The other one would be, okay?
Yeah, this one parallel and
sequential data fetching.
Highly recommend reading up on this.
Basically, just describes how and
we kind of did it in the app where you
have some data fetching, happening and
blocking JSX and rendering where some
might be happening and it background.
While sequential is the one that's
blocking parallels while that's happening
in the background, and when and
why you would use those and
how do you group those up?
How do you tee up data fetching if
one function that's fetching data
requires the output of another function?
How do you queue those together
what does that look like?
So I highly recommend looking at up and
different patterns that are describing
some of these documentations.
A lot of this is like they're just
exploring because it's somewhat brand new
but there are gonna be a bunch of patterns
that evolve from this in the next year so,
it's gonna get pretty crazy.
Like I said, I do think most frameworks
are gonna start copying them too.
So everyone's got hooks now, so yeah.
I think, and this is React.
This isn't just next.js,
React is doing this.
So I think there's gonna be a lot of
innovation in this paradigm of thinking.
So I would look into that,
the only other thing I would look into for
production stuff is not
it's mostly that stuff.
That's the tough stuff.
Maybe, yeah, streaming and suspense.
So really understanding how data and
even components themselves are streamed
to Node.js or to the browser from
Node.js and from the edge runtime.
And how that actually changes how your
browser executes your app is very
important to understand and
how to opt into the streaming and
different things like that.
So we've been using
streaming this whole time.
What server components like loading and
the suspend boundaries
that I have is routing.
So just having a really good idea of how
that works, but for the most part, yeah.
Once you know all that,
you can pretty much do everything.
I mean like I can't wait for
people to start building apps that shows
almost no Javascript in addition to
the framework themselves to
the browsers what happens though.
>> Do you have any resources
you would recommend
to learn more about edge versus node?
>> Tying to think of one resource.
I don't have a go to resource but
I can think of two places off the top of
my head that talk about it very well.
One is a company called Fly.io.
Disclaimer, I am an investor in Fly.io but
I still I've used their products
way before I was investing in them.
But their product is literally
an edge runtime and other docs and
articles describing edge, computing and
stuff like that is limitless.
So yeah, I would go in here and check out
their docs, check out there blog posts
that they've written about as competing
this littered their entire platform.
Another great resource is Cloudflare.
So if you go to Cloudflare workers
which is like their edge runtime They
also have tons of resources,
documentation,
blog posts about how edge runtime works,
the difference between them.
Like I said, it's a CDN.
So in their case,
you can see here's all the nodes.
You can imagine an edge runtime
being every one of these dots has,
let's say you made a function like the
middleware function, and you deployed it,
your middleware function is going to
exist on every one of these dots.
And then if someone from Texas
made an API call to your server,
it's going to talk to the middleware here.
And someone from Seattle made an API
call from servers going to talk
to the middleware here, right?
That's how it works.
Someone from London or whatever,
they made an API call it's gonna come
from here, the closest one to them.
That's how it works.
Whereas, your origin server,
where your serverless functions are,
not your edge run time might be
deployed in Virginia or Oregon.
So, instead of going all the way there.
So, if I am all the way here in Cape Cod
and your origin servers all the way here
in Virginia, instead of going all the way
here to get my authentication checked,
I would just go here to get
my authentication checked.
>> I'm not leveraging any of the new
features, should I use version 13?
>> Yeah, most of the new features
are just in the app directory.
So you can use version 13 and still put
your pages in the pages directory and
you'll get the same experience as
version 12 with the extra benefits of
whatever version 13 has that isn't
included in the app directory.
So yeah, it's totally safe.
And I believe they have an upgrade
guide on here somewhere,
where they talk about that.
So that's upgrade guide,
but they also have like,
kind of like how to
migrate migration Yeah.
I just passed it.
Yeah, migrating from pages to app and
all this stuff.
So yeah, if you can just
read this upgrade guide for
any resources on how you might
best take advantage of that.
Okay, well thanks for
taking the course and yeah this is it.
>> [APPLAUSE]